---
id: gqqa4jri4oa79kcpo57ursy
title: review
desc: ''
updated: 1646146451163
created: 1646145367615
---
## Notes from Ramón Thesis

### **Range of R<sup>2</sup> low, generally less than .7, RMSE higher that 30%.  **

&mdash;&mdash;  Page 135:
> V.4.1 Models of basal area (G) estimation The fitted model to estimate G with predictor variables (PV) from Landsat 5 of 2007, had an **R<sup>2</sup> of 0.58**, an RMSE of 4.33 m2ha-1, and a **CV of 33.8%.** With PV from Landsat 8 of 2013, the G model had an **R<sup>2</sup> of 0.64, an RMSE of 4.11 m2ha-1 and a CV of 32.0%.** The results of this thesis are similar to those obtained by Muñoz-Ruiz et al. (2014) and Pérez Miranda et al. (2018) in a temperate forest, combining information from the MNFI, with SPOT and Landsat 7 imagery, respectively. In these studies, they estimate **R<sup>2</sup> of 0.32 and 0.58, and RMSE of 4.70 and 3.85 m2ha-1**. However, Günlü et al. (2014) estimate smaller RMSE=1.74 m2ha-1, in a smaller study area (180 km2) of conifer forest in Turkey.

> V.4.2 Prediction models of AGB (W) Models for W prediction, fitted with PV from Landsat 5, had **R<sup>2</sup> of 0.60, RMSE of 24.5 Mgha-1 and CV of 40.5%.** Using PV from Landsat 8 were estimated **R<sup>2</sup> of 0.63, RMSE of 23.9 Mgha-1 and CV of 39.6%.** In the temperate forest of Durango, W estimation has been studied combining field sampling and remote sensing, under different characteristics. Pérez Miranda et al. (2018), estimated similar results with** R<sup>2</sup> of 0.59 and RMSE of 21.65 Mgha-1**, using MNFI and Landsat imagery in mixed Forest of Durango. Martínez Barrón et al. (2016), using data from permanent plots estimated W combined with Landsat in the temperate forest of Durango, and obtained an** R<sup>2</sup> of 62.41, but higher RMSE of 54.74 Mgha-1.** With a lower** R<sup>2</sup> of 0.46 and higher RMSE of 49.77 Mgha-1**, Vargas-Larreta et al. (2017) estimated W using permanent plots and Landsat imagery in Durango. In contrast, López-Serrano et al. (2019) estimated an **R<sup>2</sup> of 0.80 and lower RMSE of 8.20 Mgha-1, in a W estimated a range from 1.72 to 101.71 Mgha-1;** smaller range compared with the estimated in our study, from 0.23 to 457.04 Mgha-1.
>V.4.3 Basal area (G) and AGB (W) estimation in strata of temperate forest The models fitted at the strata-level showed differences in the Godness-of-fit and coefficient of determination (R<sup>2</sup>) compared with the models fitted for the temperate forest. In conifer forest, the R<sup>2</sup> and CV increased in both estimated variables, G and W. **The R<sup>2</sup> had values of more than 0.64, while CV was more than 37.6% ** in G, and more 46.9% in W. In mixed forest, for both estimates, **the R<sup>2</sup> decreased to less than 0.62, and the CV also decreased to less than 36.7%**. The models to estimate G and W in the oak forest had the lowest R<sup>2</sup> of less than 0.42 and the CV increased to more than 39 until 46.7%. Our results show that stratification reduces the CV only in mixed forest and increases R<sup>2</sup> only in conifer forest. Other studies that applied stratification when combining remote sensing and field sampling found similar results than in our study, in W estimation. Rodríguez-Veiga et al. (2016), using MNFI and MaxEnt algorithm, they fit a model to estimate W at national-level with an **R<sup>2</sup> of 0.31**, and found a decrease of R<sup>2</sup> at state-level with a range of 0.34 to 0.82. Zhao et al. (2016) found that RMSE and CV decrease in the stratifications, except for the pine forest as in our study. In 180 km2 of a conifer forest of Turkey, Günlü et al. (2014) estimated **R<sup>2</sup> of 0.61 and CV of 10.19%** for W estimation. In a similar area of conifer forest in Turkey, Günlü & Kadıoğulları (2018) estimated an R<sup>2</sup> of 41 and CV of 8.9%. Similar results for deciduous forest were obtained by Zhao et al. (2016) in estimates of AGB with R<sup>2</sup> of 0.43 and RMSE of 24.8 Mg ha-1.  

> V.4.4 Predictor variables from Landsat imagery The widest predictor variable (PV) used in G and W estimation is the NDVI (Gizachew et al., 2016; Pérez Miranda et al., 2018). However, there is evidence from previous studies that NDVI has limited ability to estimate G and W when high concentrations are estimated (Shi & Liu, 2017). Through stepwise regression, we selected the PVs which optimize (smaller RMSE) G and W estimates compared to those estimated with NDVI.